# Final Project
This project was conducted within two Python scripts, each of which solve various coding challenges. Original scripts/code were provided by Shadrock Roberts, and then edited by Chikondi Thangata and Shannon Reault in order to yield the results of the project.

Script 1:

The purpose of this script is to generate an output with weather forecast information from the National Weather Service based on a latitude/longitude location provided by the user. The user is prompted to input latitude and longitude coordinates in decimal degrees. Using string concatenation, the code then incorporates the input values in a url string, which is then used to retrieve the weather information from the NWS webpage with the .get() function. Then BeautifulSoup is utilized in order to access the webpage content and parse the elements we want for the output. For loops are used in order to loop through the BeautifulSoup object to extract the text for the output and format it properly to be printed.

No known bugs to errors exist in this code.

I would use code like this in the future. This coding methodology is ideal for accessing information on a day-to-day basis more efficiently, as opposed to navigating the weather website ach day. Another example of how code like this could be used would be checking wildfire risk from a daily reporting website or checking daily stock performance.

Script 2: (finalprojscript2)

The purpose of this script is to utilize python code to organize and analyze the results of a survey in which each member of a staff voted for a county in Kenya that they believe should continue receiving humanitarian support from their organization. The survey was uploaded as a text file and string manipulation was used in order to differentiate the name of the staff member and the county they voted for. A for loop is used in order to count the votes within a given county (the code currently counts votes for Nairobi county but can be edited to work for any county). The same is done using a for loop within a function to count votes for Kisumu. Lastly, code was written in order to count the total number of votes for each county with proper output formatting, excluding any duplicate votes. This was done by tracking the votes with a for loop that contained an if statement and storing the totals in a dictionary, and using the continue statement to exlude any votes by a staff member that had already voted.

There are no know errors currently within this script. Many of the errors generated pertained to syntax or improper indexing, which were corrected easily. There was a more problematic error encountered when writing the function to count votes for Kisumu, which indicated that the variable “number” was already defined before being used within the function. Adding a line of code establishing this variable as “global” prevented this error. This solution was found by researching the error, and utilizing advice offered in Stackoverflow (https://stackoverflow.com/questions/11904981/local-variable-referenced-before-assignment). Numerous errors were also generated throughout the process of writing the code total the votes. The majority of these errors were solved by correcting the way the list and dictionary were used in the function. The final code block organizes the code to clean the data, exclude duplicate votes, and total the counts for each county. Many errors were encountered when writing this code that were eventually fixed through trial and error. These included errors with continue (caused by a for loop), errors of variables being defined before use, and errors regarding data types that were not iterable. (There is another script finalproj_script2_nofunctions that has a code chunk which generated successful results, but not in function format- this is what we used before the functions were successful).

Although the solution for the code provided in script 1 is not overly complicated, it did require a good understanding of some challenging topics, including web scraping, string concatenation, and the use of BeautifulSoup. While writing this script, we found that we were able to intuitively use python techniques faster and more efficiently than when we first began using them for previous assignments. Writing the code to total all of the votes for each county was particularly challenging. The final successful code utilized many of the techniques we learned in class, requiring the proper use of a wide variety of coding methodology including dictionaries, string concatenation, lists, for loops, and if statements. Despite the difficulty of this coding challenge, the ability to find a solution proved our understanding of how the code was working and how to alter it to yield the correct results.
